Logger implementation documentation (#2)
LuxoftSDL/sdl_core_guides: docs/Developer Documentation/Logger/index.md

# SDL Logger

Open source version of SDL is using log4cxx for logging.

> Because of lack of log4cxx stability OEM have an ability to replace log4cxx logger with any other logging boost or syslog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because of lack of log4cxx stability OEM should have an ability to replace log4cxx logger with any other logging boost or syslog.
```

> SDL implements Logger abstration for easily replace library for logging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SDL implements Logger abstration for easily replacement of logging library.
```

|||
High Level Design
![Logger](./assets/high_level_design.png)
|||

All components have aceess to `Logger` interface and use it for logging.

## SDLLogger

`Logger` interface is implemented by `SDLLoggerImpl`. 

> SDLLoggerImpl use message loop thread to proxy loggin message to thard party (external) logger.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`SDLLoggerImpl` use message loop thread to proxy log messages to third party (external) logger.
```

> SDLLoggerImpl owns `ExternalLogger` and controlls it's life cycle. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`SDLLoggerImpl` owns `ExternalLogger` and controls it's lifetime. 
```

> SDLLoggerImpl provide implementation of the singleton pattern.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`SDLLoggerImpl` provides implementation of the singleton pattern.
```

### Message loop thread in SDLLogger

> Message loop thread is needed to avoid significant performance degradation in run time is logging calls are blocking calls and takes to much time. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Message loop thread is needed to avoid significant performance degradation in run time as logging calls are blocking calls and might take too much time. 
```

> `SDLLoggerImpl::PushLog` is non blocking call. It will put log message in to the queue and exit immediately 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`SDLLoggerImpl::PushLog` is non a blocking call. It will put the log message into the queue and returns immediately 
```

> If `ExternalLogger` supports non blocking threaded logging, minor changes in SDLLogger are required : `SDLLoggerImpl::PushLog` should be reimplemented to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `ExternalLogger` supports non blocking threaded logging, minor changes in `SDLLogger` are required : `SDLLoggerImpl::PushLog` should be reimplemented to 
```

use `ExternalLogger::ForceLog()` directly. 

## Logger singleton 

Logger is the only one singleton class in SDL.
Singleton pattern required to have an access to logger from any component. 
Logger singleton provides singleton by `Logger` interface. 
So sdl components do not have information about neither logger implementation nor specific external logger. 

## Logger singleton with plugins 

> SDL plugins are shared librariess, so LoggerSingleton could not be implemented with Mayers singleton. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SDL plugins are shared libraries, so `LoggerSingleton` could not be implemented with Mayers singleton. 
```

Mayers singleton would create own SDL logger instance.

> The idea is to pass singleton pointer to Plugin during creation, so that plugin could initialize Logger::instance pointer with received from sdl_core. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The idea is to pass singleton pointer to Plugin during creation, so that plugin could initialize `Logger::instance` pointer with one received from SDL core. 
```

Instance implementation : 
```cpp
static Logger& instance(Logger* pre_init = nullptr);

Logger& Logger::instance(Logger* pre_init) {
  static Logger* instance_ = nullptr;
  if (pre_init) {
    assert(instance_ == nullptr);
    instance_ = pre_init;
  }
  assert(instance_);
  return *instance_;
}
```

`pre_init` is `nullptr` by default, so all components will access instance_ static pointer for logging. 

> `main()`  function neet to create SDLLogger implementation and call Logger::instance(logger_implementation);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`main()`  function need to create `SDLLogger` implementation and call `Logger::instance` (logger implementation);
```

Plugin implementation:
```cpp 
extern "C" PluginType* Create(Logger* logger_singleton_instance) {
  Logger::instance(logger_instance);
  return new PluginType();
}
```

SDL Core part will give pointer to logger singleton to the plugin so that plugin shared lib could initialize `Logger::instance` with the same pointer as core part. 

## Logger detailed design :

Each component creates `logger_` variable via macro. 
This variable is actually a string with component name of the logger.
Some logger implementations (like log4cxx) may have separate suverity or destanation  rules for each component. 

> Loggin macroses used to create such variable in each source file where loggin is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Logger macroses used to create such variable in each source file where logging is required.
```

SDL implements all info required for log message :

 * LogLevel enum
 * Location info struct : location in the code
 * TimePoint 

|||
Detailed Design
![Logger in details](./assets/detailed_logger_design.png)
|||

### Logger interface 

Logger macroses use Logger interface for sending messages to External Logger. 
Logger interface contains only methods required by any SDL component to perform logging : 

 * PushLog(LogMessage)
 * IsEnabledFor(LogLevel)
 * Enabled()
 * instance() - singleton

### LoggerInitializer interface 

LoggerInitializer specify interface required for Main to init/deinit logger but not required for any other SDL components
LoggerInitializer should be templated with paticular ExternalLogger implementation

It contains : 
 - Init(ExternalLogger* external_logger)
 - DeInit()

Init and DeInit should perform internal initialization/deinitializetion and be proxied to ExternalLogger

### ThirdPartyLogger interface

> ThirdPartyLogger interface extends Logger Interface with Initialisation and deinitialisation methods

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ThirdPartyLogger interface extends Logger Interface with Initialization and deinitialization methods
```

> This interface should be inherited by paticulat external logger implementation 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This interface should be inherited by particular external logger implementation 
```

## Another logger implementation. 

To use another (not log4cxx) logger, you should implement ThirdPartyLoggerInterface class 

```cpp
AnotherOneLoggerImpl : ThirdPartyLoggerInterface {
  void SomeCustomMethod(parameters);
  void Init() override;
  void DeInit() override;
  void Enable() override;
  bool Enabled() override;
  void Disable() override;
  void Flush() override;

>   void PushLog(const LogMessage& log_message) override;

Reviewer: Should be updated as some methods were renamed/removed

Author: Fixed

Author: fixed
